**Dennis MacAlistair Ritchie** (September 9, 1941 – c. October 12, 2011) was an American [computer scientist](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_scientist "Computer scientist").[[3]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dennis_Ritchie#cite_note-NYTimes-3) He is most well known for creating the [C programming language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C_(programming_language) "C (programming language)") and, with long-time colleague [Ken Thompson](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ken_Thompson "Ken Thompson"), the [Unix](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix "Unix") operating system  and B programming language
### gcc : compiler 
%%GCC stands for GNU Compiler Collections which is used to compile mainly C and C++ language. It can also be used to compile Objective C and Objective C++. The most important option required while compiling a source code file is the name of the source program, rest every argument is optional like a warning, debugging, linking libraries, object file etc. The different options of _gcc_ command allow the user to stop the compilation process at different stages.%%
   ### Syntax:
        gcc \[-c|-S|-E] \[-std=standard]
Command 
    1.  -o : give file name 
         <gcc main.c  -o name.c>
    2. -E : Preprocess only
    3.  -S : Compile only; do not assemble or link.
    4. -c : this command compile the program and give the object file as output, which is used to make libraries. <gcc -c source.c > source.o 
    5. -Werror :  This will %%compile the source%% and %%show the warning%% if any error is there in the program
     <gcc source.c -Werror -o opt> 
    6.  -Wall: This will check not only for errors but also for all kinds warning like %%unused variables errors%%, it is good practice to use this flag while compiling the code.
         <gcc -Wall source.c -o opt >
    7. -ggdb3: This command give us permissions to debug the program using gdb which will be described later, _-g_ option is for debugging.
         <gcc -ggdb3 source.c -Wall -o opt>
    8. - **-lm :** This command link _math.h_ library to our source file, -l option is used for linking particular library, for math.h we use -lm.
        <gcc -Wall source.c -o opt -lm>
    9. -std=c11 : This command will use the c11 version of standards for compiling the _source.c_ program, which allows to define variable under loop initializations also using newer standards version is preferred.
         <gcc -Wall -std=c11 source.c -o opt>


